piece of art that represents their
society around them a piece of art that
represents society around you okay um
any other definition what's
a poem
a poem sometimes they rhyme and sometimes
they don't
right okay yeah but sometimes they
no right okay yeah but sometimes they
do anybody else you want to add to that
it's up to open to the
interpretation it's up to open to the
reader interpretation that's a very
common definition of poetry is that it's
language that can be interpreted any way
that we want it's evocative language
original language that kind of thing
right sometimes people say it's sincere
language anybody else have a thought
thought sometimes it rhymes sometimes it
thought sometimes it Rhymes sometimes it
doesn't okay the thing about all these
definitions
is that they're forgetting a really
important aspect of poetry and I think
the reason is because now we see things
on the page whereas when poetry
originally
started all of the words that hold the
culture together were not written on a
page they were carried. Right? they were
carried in the memory so think of a word
that you carry in your memory
like for example if I say how many days
are in July
how many days are in July somebody
tell me
me okay how did you figure that out
counted on the knuckles oh okay I
don't even know that one that's good
January February March April May June
July August September October November
December so if it hits on a knuckle it's
a 31 day. Got it! did anybody else know that
one yeah okay never heard of that did
anyone else know another way
yeah 30 days on September April June and
November all the rest have 31 right so
that's the way I always do it if you
don't know the knuckle thing that's how
you do it so if that didn't have meter
when rhyme to it you wouldn't remember
it right most likely I mean it's that's
how you remember right um so meter if
you look at our definition sheet
meter is a way to strengthen language's
rhythm by shaping into recognizable
patterns so we strengthen the rhythm and
that connects the words to our body
right so if you want to remember
something if you're an actor and you
need to remember lines they tell you
move your body and then your body will
remember it body memory then the words
will be associated with your body in the
same way meter which is regular pattern
of rhythmic language a regular pattern
of rhythmic language that regularity
brings it into your body and when it's
in your body you will remember it so
this is this
particular powerful magic that poetry
has that we remember the rhythms a b c d
e f g h i j k lmn o p lmn o p so it'll
e f g h i j k l o p lmn o p so it'll
match up right it's we're always looking
for the symmetry the pattern the
physical balance and that's how language
becomes part of our
body having devoted my entire life to
what is this feeling it started out when
I was a little kid and I would get this
weird feeling in my spine when I heard
certain words it might even be like
somebody's name you know just like
just some strange name I know some
interesting name with a rhythm to it one
of the ones I Mahalia Jackson the singer
right Mahalia Jackson
or Theodore Roosevelt bum bum bum
bum you hear these you hear something
that has that and it would give me this
feeling in my spine and it would give me
that sort of magical
feeling we all have this because we have
in our bodies we have our heartbeats we have
our breath and we have our sense of day
and night and our sense of birth and
death and all of these connections to
repeating and rhythms and cycles so it's
this physical reality that takes it out
of your brain and brings it into your
body and that's something
that poetry does other things don't do
so I like you all to just put your hand
on your wrist
and notice okay do you feel your pulse
there okay you put your fingers lightly
on your pulse so you can feel the pulse
and then just take a breath normal
breath in and out and as you're doing it
count how many times you hear your
heartbeat so there's a ratio of your breath
heartbeat to your breath
breath breathe
in breathe
out Breathe
In Breathe
Out breathe
in breathe
how many heart beats did you
feel each time you breathe in or out